=encoding utf-8

=head1 NAME

apt-btrfs-snapshot - Integrate btrfs snapshots with APT


=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<apt-btrfs-snapshot> [-h | --help | --debug | --test] { supported | tree | 
show I<snapshot> | status | list | list-older-than | create [-t I<tag>]| 
tag I<snapshot> I<tag> | set-default I<snapshot> [-t I<tag>] | 
rollback [-n I<number>] [-t I<tag>] | delete I<snapshot> | clean
delete-older-than I<days>B<d> }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<apt-btrfs-snapshot> is used to create and manage snapshots of the root 
filesystem. An APT hook is also installed to automatically create a snapshot
every time APT is run.

B<apt-btrfs-snapshot> tracks the hierarchy of snapshots and the dpkg package
operations that happen in between.



=head1 ACTIONS

=over

=item supported          

Tells the user if the system supports snapshots. If snapshots are not
supported, returns with a non-zero exit code.

=item tree

Gives a tree view of all known snapshots showing the branches of their ancestry.
Each line shows how many packages were install (+I<number>), upgraded
(^I<number>) and removed (-I<number>) since the previous snapshot was taken.

=item show I<snapshot>

Show information pertaining to the I<snapshot> including its parent snapshot and
the package installs, upgrades, removes, etc. since its parent snapshot was
taken.

=item status

Show when the parent snapshot was taken and the package operations that have 
occurred since.

=item list

Lists all available snapshots.

=item list-older-than I<days>B<d>

Lists all snapshots older than I<days> days.

=item create [-t I<tag>]

Creates a new snapshot, optionally adding the specified I<tag> to its name.

=item tag I<snapshot> I<tag>

Adds/replaces the tag added to the I<snapshot> name after the date.

=item set-default I<snapshot> [-t I<tag>]

Backs up the current root, optionally adding the specified I<tag> to its name.
And restores a copy of I<snapshot>. 

You will have to reboot after this operation.

=item rollback [-n I<n>] [-t I<tag>]

Backs up the current root, optionally adding the specified I<tag> to its name.
Then restores a copy of the I<n>th ancestor of the current root.

You will have to reboot after this operation.

=item delete I<snapshot>	

Deletes a snapshot. The parent and package operation information will be 
combined with the information stored in its children.

=item delete-older-than I<days>d

Deletes snapshots older than I<days> days. The value "0d" can be used
to delete all days. Tagged snapshots will not be deleted, nor will those at the 
junction of branches. These snapshots can always be manually deleted.

=item clean          

The apt cache for downloaded deb files can get quite large, hence the apt-get
clean command. This command deletes the deb files cached in the snapshots.
Thereby freeing space.

=back

=head1 NOTES

Snapshot creation will not happen if another snapshot has been created within
the last minute, unless you specify a I<tag>. Stops Ubuntu's update manager
provoking four snapshots in quick succession each time.

In addition, if the environment variable B<APT_NO_SNAPSHOTS> is set when
apt-btrfs-snapshot is run, no snapshots will be created unless a I<tag> is 
specified. Useful when you will be installing several small packages and don't 
need a snapshot every time.

Tagging can serve to remind you why you abandoned a snapshot. Or to remind you
of the value of one snapshot. Or to make sure important old snapshots are never
deleted.

=head1 SEE ALSO

apt.conf(5) btrfs(8)
